Spring is all about removing configuration code from your application.
Why is configuration code such a bad thing in your app?
Well, it makes things brittle, and by brittle,
I mean hard to move to different environments.
You maybe haven't experienced this yet in your career,
but have you ever had to recompile your code because you were
deploying it to a different server environment?
What about testing?
One of the things I hear as I'm coaching people
through agile development is that, well,
we don't do unit tests because it's really hard to test our code.
We have really complex code.
And I'll tell you right now that it's not the complexity
of the code that makes it hard to test, it's the way the code was written.
It's just a perfect example if you opt to not test code because it was too hard.
It's not the testing that's hard, it's the configuration of that that's hard.
Maybe it has a reference to JNDI or a database or some other things like that.
More often than not,
there is configuration code or code that doesn't have to deal with
the normal flow of business logic that muddies up what you're
trying to accomplish in your application.
We've already developed part of the application without Spring,
and now I'll show you how to configure that using
the Java configuration approach, then we'll move onto annotations,
and, lastly, we'll briefly show the XML configuration method.
Let's examine some of those pain points a little closer, though, before we dive in.